docs: ase-developer-journeys (#794)
interledger/open-payments: docs/src/content/docs/overview/for-ases.mdx

---

> title: Implementing Open Payments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Implementing Open Payments
next: Developer concepts
```

Reviewer: Just a thought on wording. Without a different `next` title, the navigation at the bottom of the page just says "Wallet addresses". Since this is an ASE page, it might be weird to send someone to the Developer's wallet concepts page w/ no context.

Author: Good catch! Thanks.

---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'
import { LinkOut } from '@interledger/docs-design-system'

:::tip[Summary]

> Implementing Open Payments means standing up the servers that make a financial institution's accounts Open Payments-enabled. This page is the entry point for engineers at banks, digital wallet providers, and mobile money operators who are building that server stack.

Reviewer: Semantics, I know. But maybe we should use financial service provider instead of institution. What do you think?

> Implementing Open Payments means standing up the servers that make a financial institution's accounts Open Payments-enabled. This page is the entry point for engineers at banks, digital wallet providers, and mobile money operators who are building that server stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementing Open Payments means standing up the servers that make a financial service provider's accounts Open Payments-enabled. This page is the entry point for engineers at banks, digital wallets, mobile payment systems, and other providers who are building that server stack.
```

:::

This page is the starting point for account servicing entity (ASE) implementors.

## What ASEs build

To make accounts Open Payments-enabled, ASEs operate three servers and integrate with an identity provider:

- A **wallet address server** that returns public information about each Open Payments-enabled account.
- A **resource server** that hosts the `incoming-payment`, `quote`, and `outgoing-payment` APIs.
- An **authorization server** that processes grant requests, issues access tokens, and coordinates user consent.

> - An **identity provider** integration that authenticates the resource owner and collects explicit consent for outgoing-payment grants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An **identity provider** integration that authenticates the resource owner and collects explicit consent for interactive grants.
```

    href="/implement/"
    description="What an ASE must build, how this guide relates to the rest of the docs, and where Rafiki fits in."
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Wallet address architecture"
    href="/implement/wallet-address-architecture/"
    description="URL constraints, the response contract, multi-currency patterns, and address-to-account mapping policy."
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Resource server"
    href="/implement/resource-server/"
    description="What the resource server must do for each resource type and how it hands off to settlement."
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Authorization server"
    href="/implement/auth-server/"
    description="GNAP processing, interactive consent orchestration, and token lifecycle management."
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Identity provider integration"
    href="/implement/identity-provider/"
    description="What the IdP must display, what the auth server passes to it, and how decisions flow back."
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Security"
    href="/implement/security/"
    description="Signature validation, client key resolution, and interaction hash generation from the server side."
  />
</CardGrid>

## The rest of the docs

> The Developer Concepts pages (under Overview → Concepts and Identity and access management) describe what client developers need to know to call the APIs. ASEs are welcome to read them. They describe the same protocol from the other side, but they are not the authoritative source for ASE implementation requirements. The For ASEs section is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Developer Concepts pages (under For Developers → Concepts) describe what client developers need to know to call the APIs. ASEs are welcome to read them. They describe the same protocol from the other side, but they are not the authoritative source for ASE implementation requirements.
```

Reviewer: Suggest removing "and Identity and access management" since it's a subsection of Concepts. 

I removed the last sentence because it seemed a little odd for it to not have a link (because there isn't a place to link to, thanks Starlight). Alternatively, we could bold or italicize "For ASEs".

## Reference implementation

<LinkOut href="https://rafiki.dev">Rafiki</LinkOut> is an open-source
implementation of an Open Payments-compatible server stack. The ASE

> implementation guide describes the standard- and protocol-level requirements;

Reviewer: Should we refer to an ASE implementation guide like it's a standalone thing?

Author: Good point!  We should steer away from references to a "guide," since we ended up with a collection of pages with no required step sequence.
